19
notify(fiber.ctx, provided(fiber))
20
fiber.inertia ← null
21
else
22
fiber.state ← UNLOADING
23
fiber.inertia ← create_task(unload(fiber))
24
async function unload(fiber)
25
await all(notify(fiber.ctx, provided(fiber)).map(f ↦ f.await())) ▷ drain dependents
26
await fiber.dispose()
27
fiber.dispose ← id
28
fiber.committed ← ⊥
29
if fiber.target = ⊥ then
30
fiber.state ← INACTIVE
31
fiber.inertia ← null
32
else
33
fiber.state ← LOADING
34
fiber.inertia ← create_task(reload(fiber))
fiber.target is computed by resolving each declared key against the current coeffect store 
and tupling the uid of the fiber that provides it, so it is a digest of target(𝛾, 𝑛) (Definition 46). 
Identifying a binding by its provider rather than by its value is what makes a single comparison 
against the recorded target sufficient: a uid is drawn fresh and never reused, so a provider that 
is replaced cannot be mistaken for the one it replaced, even when the two provide equal values. 
Since notify (Section 5.1.2) recomputes the target on every coeffect change, a fiber reloads 
precisely when one of its declared keys comes to be provided by a different fiber. A provider 
that overwrites its own binding in place is therefore not observed; a component that wants its 
replacement to propagate withdraws the binding and installs it afresh.
The algorithm operates at two complementary levels. At the transition level, reload and 
unload check the target at completion, enabling inertial chaining across transitions. At the 
iteration level within each transition, the effect execution (Algorithm 1) checks the target at each 
iteration boundary, enabling partial rollback within a single transition. These two mechanisms 
correspond to the inter-transition chaining of Section 4.3.3 and the intra-transition staleness 
check that Theorem 64 rests on.
Three lines carry the coeffect ordering of Theorem 63, and where each of them sits is what 
makes the ordering hold. reload commits the resolved view at Line 14 and unload discards it 
only after every inverse has run, so a fiber reads the same bindings for as long as it is loaded, its 
own teardown included. refresh marks the fiber UNLOADING at Line 10 before the transition task 
is created, which is the L-Leave step: the fiber stops providing, and the dependents recompute 
against that before any of its inverses is scheduled. unload then waits at Line 25 for each notified 
dependent to reach INACTIVE, which is the guard on L-Unload; notify admits a dependent only 
when its declared key resolves to the same realm symbol as the provider’s, which is the runtime 
form of the guard’s demand that the dependent see the key from this fiber rather than merely 
declare it. The wait sits ahead of the whole recovery rather than inside one of the inverses being 
waited on, since fiber.dispose initiates a fiber’s effects concurrently and a wait placed within 
one of them would leave the rest unordered. Termination follows Theorem 66: a fiber only ever 
waits on dependents that have already stopped being satisfiable, and a dependent that is itself 
a provider waits the same way for its own, so the provider graph is traversed on demand rather 
than analyzed in advance.
60
