• Theorem 63 lets the entries be instantiated together, with no load order for the orches­
trator to arrange: a fiber whose declared keys are not yet provided waits at its L-Begin, and 
one whose provider leaves is deactivated ahead of it. A dependency therefore constrains 
when a fiber activates rather than when its module is fetched and evaluated, so the loader 
loads modules concurrently, where bringing up a large configuration spends its time.
On top of the fiber that an entry declares, the loader dispatches on which of the entry’s 
fields changed and applies the least disruptive operation for each.
• id, url — rebuilds the entry, since its identity or its component has changed;
• isolate — reassigns the entry’s realms (Algorithm 7);
• intercept — updated in place, as interception metadata is consulted at read time and 
needs no reload;
• config — handed to the component, which decides how to apply the new payload, 
typically by diffing it against the previous one and reloading only on a material change. 
In particular, an @cordisjs/group entry’s config is its list of child entries, so it applies the 
update as a keyed diff over child ids, creating, removing, or updating each child; since 
updating a surviving child re-enters this same per-field dispatch, group reconciliation 
and entry update recurse together down the tree;
• disabled — unloads the fiber when set and reloads it when cleared.
Managed realms. Isolation in the core derives a child context overriding the realm table 𝜌 
at one key (Section 5.1.2), which suffices while the context tree stands still. An entry may be 
moved between groups at runtime, so the loader manages realms of its own, and the isolate 
field selects between two scoping rules per key. A value of true asks for a local realm, private 
to the entry and tagged by its id, which the entry carries with it wherever it moves; a string 
asks for a global realm shared by every entry naming that string, so moving such an entry 
changes which entries it shares a binding with rather than which realm it belongs to. A realm 
is discarded once no entry names it.
Reassigning an entry’s realms turns on which keys changed realm, whether the entry is 
itself the provider at a changed key, and which dependents to notify. The middle question is 
the hard one, since a realm symbol may be shared by several fibers of which only one is the 
provider. The loader answers it with delimiters: one symbol 𝛿𝑘 per key, under which each context 
stores a tag of its own. A delimiter is written on a context and inherited by its descendants, so 
the entry’s tag and the provider’s agree exactly when the two were derived within one isolate 
scope for 𝑘, which is the case in which the binding at 𝑘 is the entry’s own and has to move 
with it.
Algorithm 7 Isolation realm reassignment
1
function patch_isolation(entry, 𝜌′)
2
𝜌 ← entry.ctx[@@isolate]
3
store ← entry.ctx[@@store]
4
Δ ← {𝑘| 𝜌(𝑘) ≠𝜌′(𝑘)} ▷ keys whose realm changes
5
for 𝑘 in Δ do
6
entry.ctx[𝛿𝑘] ← fresh tag
7
diff[𝑘] ← (𝜌(𝑘), 𝜌′(𝑘), entry.ctx[𝛿𝑘], store[𝜌(𝑘)].fiber.ctx[𝛿𝑘])
8
entry.ctx[@@isolate] ← 𝜌′
9
reload(entry.fiber)
10
for 𝑘 in Δ do
63
