Algorithm 3 Reactive notification
1
function notify(ctx, keys)
2
affected ← ⌀
3
for fiber in all_fibers do
4
for key in keys do
5
if key ∈ fiber.inject and fiber.ctx[@@isolate][key] = ctx[@@isolate][key] then
6
refresh(fiber)
7
affected ← affected ∪ {fiber}
8
break
9
return affected
A binding counts as available to a dependent only while the fiber that installed it is ACTIVE, 
so refresh resolves each declared key against an active provider rather than against the store 
alone. This is the provided by relation of Definition  46, and it is what makes a withdrawal 
visible to dependents one step before it happens: a provider that has entered UNLOADING has 
stopped providing, so its dependents recompute an unsatisfied target view and begin their 
own teardown while its bindings are all still in place.
Isolation and interception. The two operations do structurally the same thing: each 
derives a child context that adjusts one inherited table for key, leaving the parent untouched, 
so recovery is implicit: discarding the child context suffices, with no explicit inverse to run. 
ctx.isolate(key, realm) overrides the realm mapping 𝜌 with realm, or a freshly generated 
symbol by default (realizing isolate, Definition  29), so two contexts that assign different 
symbols to the same key resolve to independent bindings. ctx.intercept(key, metadata) 
merges metadata into the interception table 𝜄 (realizing intercept, Definition 31): following that 
definition, the new metadata is combined with whatever the context already carries for key and 
takes priority over it.
5.1.3. Component Lifecycle
A component is instantiated as a fiber by ctx.use. This section gives the fiber (introduced in 
Section 5.1) operational meaning as the inertial state machine of Section 4.3.3. Two fields drive 
the algorithm below: fiber.parent, the parent context of fiber.ctx that forms the component 
hierarchy (the recursive structure of Γ∞, Section 3.3.1), and fiber.inertia, a handle to the in-
flight asynchronous transition (or null if idle).
Algorithm  4 shows component instantiation. A component pairs a coeffect specification 
component.inject (𝑑) with an effect function component.apply; instantiation binds the 
component’s config into fiber.apply (Line 9), the config-applied effect function (𝑒) that the 
lifecycle then runs. The callback function (Line 2) is the effect tracked in the parent fiber: when 
executed, it initiates the child’s lifecycle by calling refresh (Algorithm 5); when recovered, 
it forces the child’s target to ⊥ and triggers unload. This is the registration primitive of 
Definition 47, with callback as its O-Insert and the closure callback returns as its O-Retire: an 
instantiation is an ordinary tracked effect of the parent, so unloading a parent cascades to its 
children.
Algorithm 4 Component instantiation
1
function use(ctx, component, config)
58
