Phase 3: Transactional reload. Finally, the engine reloads the stale entries. It invalidates 
the accepted modules’ caches3, backing up each removed module to enable rollback, then re-
imports each stale entry’s component module by its url and swaps in a fresh fiber:
Algorithm 10 Transactional module reload
1
function reload(ctx, accepted, stale_entries)
2
backup ← invalidate_caches(accepted)
3
try
4
for entry in stale_entries do
5
entry.fiber.dispose()
6
entry.fiber ← ctx.use(import(entry.url), entry.config)
7
catch error
8
restore_caches(backup)
9
for entry in stale_entries do
10
entry.fiber.dispose()
11
entry.fiber ← ctx.use(backup[entry.url], entry.config)
12
throw error
The transactional guarantee ensures that the system never enters a half-reloaded state: if 
any module fails to import (e.g., due to a syntax error), the caches are restored and every 
stale entry is rebuilt from backup[entry.url], the previous component whose cache was just 
restored, undoing the swaps already made.
5.3. Case Study: Koishi
Koishi is an open-source chatbot application framework built on Cordis4. Over four years of 
development, it has accumulated over 4000 community-contributed plugins5, ranging from 
instant-messaging (IM) adapters and database drivers to administrative consoles and end-
user features. Its scale and diversity make it a representative validation of Cordis’s dynamic 
composability in a production setting.
Expressiveness and generality of the meta-framework. Koishi runs as a server-side bot 
whose every feature is realized as a plugin over the context primitives of Section 5.1; Koishi 
itself contributes only the chatbot-domain vocabulary. The same model reappears in a wholly 
different runtime: Koishi’s web console is a second, independent Cordis application whose 
plugins compose the primitives of the browser and its user interface rather than those of the 
server. The disparate settings above establish two properties of the model of Section 3. (1) It 
is expressive: its primitives suffice to carry a complete production system, the host framework 
supplying only domain vocabulary. (2) It is general: it fixes how effects and coeffects compose 
while leaving their meaning to each application, and so presupposes neither a particular 
domain nor a particular runtime.
Temporal composability without cognitive overhead. The plugin systems surveyed in 
Section 1.2.1 cannot unload an individual extension’s effects without restarting the extension 
3On Node.js, this means clearing the caches of both the ES module and CommonJS module systems, since a 
module imported through the ES loader can appear in both.
4Koishi currently uses Cordis v3. This paper presents Cordis v4, which refines the effect and coeffect semantics 
and redesigns the loader; the core compositional model is shared across both versions.
5Koishi uses the term plugin for the concept this paper formalizes as component.
66
