2. Full rollouts. The problem worker sends out an additional 128 requests to the rollout workers, again
retrying failed requests as needed. Each rollout is graded, and this information is aggregated into an
overall pass rate for task. If the overall pass rate is within a predetermined interval, the problem worker
proceeds to postprocessing. Otherwise, the RL task is aborted.
3. Postprocessing. The problem worker computes a normalized advantage for each rollout to use in the
RL objective (Sec. 3.1.1). Depending on the problem in question, this step may include applying length
penalties for long rollouts, applying GRPO reward normalization, or other heuristics.
3.6.3 Rollout Worker
When the rollout worker receives a request from a problem worker, it generates a single rollout, optionally
grades it, and then sends the results back to the caller. In a typical flow, the rollout worker starts by generating
an initial model prompt and sending it to a model inference server. When the response comes back, the
rollout worker parses it, performs any tool calls, and incorporates the results into a follow-up request to the
inference server. This process continues until the model stops making tool calls and outputs a final answer,
or exceeds some pre-determined limit on the number of steps or the amount of time the rollout can take.
After a rollout finishes, the next step is to grade the model’s output. The grader’s output contains a nu-
meric reward and an optional pass/fail verdict. Depending on the problem, grading can either happen on
the rollout worker or on the problem worker. If individual rollouts can be evaluated in isolation, grading is
performed by the rollout worker. For example, on a math problem, the grader might output (1, pass) if the
model’s output is mathematically equivalent to the problem’s groundtruth answer and (0, fail) otherwise.
On the other hand, some graders need to look at the answers for multiple rollouts simultaneously, e.g., so that
they can ask an LLM to perform pairwise comparisons of different model answers. In that setting, grading
happens on the problem worker. A single problem can have multiple grades, in which case a user-defined
policy aggregates the individual grades into a single overall reward.
3.6.4 Router and Inference
Inference is one of the most important components of the system: depending on the scale and characteristics
of the job, the ratio of inference to learner GPUs can be as large as 5:1. In our largest RL job using 4864
GB300 chips, 4096 chips are dedicated to inference while the remaining 768 chips are dedicated to the
learner. Inference performance and system stability are therefore first-order concerns. The numerics gap
between the learner and the inference engine is critical to control for RL training stability.
Inference setup.
Our RL inference stack is built on top of SGLang and the SGLang router (Zheng et al.,
2024). We chose SGLang because it met our needs of a rich set of RL serving features, fast experimentation
against open-source models, and strong ecosystem velocity. On top of the individual SGLang workers, we
use the SGLang router to handle load balancing, traffic control, and prefix caching.
Inference performance.
Because most of a job’s GPU usage comes from inference, optimizing inference
throughput is critical for efficient RL. Minimizing request latency is also critical to control staleness. We spe-
cialize our optimizations depending on whether rollouts occur over single turns or multiple turns. For single-
turn workloads, prompts are typically short but generations (including thinking) can reach up to 128k tokens,
so the main bottleneck is KV cache memory. We reduce KV cache and weight footprints via expert paral-
lelism and data parallelism for attention. We also disable prefix caching so that sliding-window-attention
tokens can be fully evicted during long generations (our model architecture relies heavily on sliding window
attention). We further reduce communication overhead via data parallelism on MLP layers, DeepEP (Deep-
EveryParallel) (Zhao et al., 2025a), and EPLB (Expert Parallelism Load Balancer) (DeepSeek-AI, 2025). For
51
