In practice, however, we found that these unclipped branches sometimes led to catastrophic gradient-
norm spikes. We address this by adding a hard outer clip that is applied to all branches:
rout
i,t (θ) = clip
(
ri,t(θ), rmin, rmax
)
,
(9)
where rmax is set to a large value and rmin can be left unconstrained; this is similar in spirit to the dual-clip
PPO objective proposed by Ye et al. (2020).
This two-level strategy discards cases where there is an extreme discrepancy between old and new prob-
abilities while preserving the standard trust-region behavior for ratios in the normal range. Empirically, we
found this to lead to fewer gradient-norm spikes and more stable climbing.
3.1.2 Reward Design
While our task-specific component differs across our domain-specific RL climbs, we use the same reward
decomposition throughout:
R(q, yi) = Rtask(q, yi) + wlang · Rlang(yi) −wlen · Rlen(yi).
(10)
Here, Rtask denotes the task-specific reward, Rlang is a language-consistency reward, and Rlen is a length
penalty. The coefficients wlang and wlen are scalar hyperparameters.
Language consistency reward.
As context lengths increase during RL, we observe that models begin
producing foreign-language tokens within their CoTs. These mixed-language CoTs correlate with spikes
in log-probability divergence between the training and inference policies, ultimately destabilizing training.
To address this, we use a language consistency reward Rlang(yi) similar to Guo et al. (2025). Since English
dominates our training distribution, we define language consistency with respect to English:
Rlang(yi) = max
(
1 −α · nnon-english(yi), 0
)
,
(11)
where nnon-english(yi) is the number of non-English words in the CoT of response yi and α is a per-word
penalty. In practice, we found that top-p sampling is similarly effective in preventing single, low-probability,
foreign language tokens.
Length penalty.
Following Xiang et al. (2025), we define our length penalty as:
Rlen(yi) = ρq · |yi|
ℓmax
(12)
where ρq is the pass rate of problem q and ℓmax is the maximum rollout length. The penalty depends on both
response length and problem difficulty. Hard problems with low pass rates receive weaker penalties, allowing
the model to explore longer reasoning traces. Easy problems receive stronger penalties, encouraging concise
and cost-efficient reasoning by removing redundant loops and hedging behavior.
3.1.3 Sampling Strategy
We employ several sampling strategies to improve both the efficiency and stability of our RL climb. These
operate at two levels: selecting which problems to train on and controlling how rollouts are generated for
those problems.
33
