components and how they enable optimization with our design principles.
2.8.1 System Overview
YOLO consists of a set of building blocks that implement the Transformer model, as well as the training loop
and any supplementary components such as dataloaders, checkpointing, logging and observability.
Kernels.
To efficiently support the numerical recipe at scale (2.6.3), YOLO includes a suite of custom ker-
nels written in Triton, CUDA, CuteDSL, and CUTLASS. These comprise FP8 GEMM kernels optimized
for the forward and data-gradient computations with support for FP8 delayed scaling; grouped GEMMs for
MoE that improve efficiency when each GPU hosts multiple experts—typically 8 in our pre-training runs
(512 experts with expert parallelism size 64)—and support all mixed-precision execution modes, including
FP8 delayed scaling; and fused quantization kernels that quantize both the original and transposed tensors
needed for the backward pass while applying scale-factor swizzling for memory efficiency, with casts ad-
jacent to RMSNorm layers fused into the normalization kernels where possible to reduce overhead. In ad-
dition, the non-grouped quantization kernels support Cluster Launch Control (CLC), a Blackwell-specific
feature for dynamic kernel load balancing.
Tensor sharding.
YOLO uses combinations of different forms of parallelism, depending on the model
size and cluster infrastructure for individual training runs. To enable fine-grained control over how indi-
vidual tensors in the model are sharded, YOLO implements a set of custom sharding annotations, similar to
JAX (Bradbury et al., 2018) or PyTorch’s DTensor (Paszke et al., 2019). Sharding annotations describe how
tensors are partitioned or replicated across n-dimensional cartesian meshes and can be used to group tensors
by their sharding type. The underlying mesh onto which each tensor is partitioned sits on top of a PyTorch
communicator that exposes the collective- and point-to-point communication primitives for that tensor. We
deliberately keep annotations purely descriptive, meaning they do not automatically insert communication
primitives into the computational graph to avoid creating accidental synchronization points.
YOLO’s distributed tensors give us the flexibility to define the sharding for each parameter in the model
independently. This allows flexible tensor-parallelisms within our model. For example, we use tensor-
parallelism for embedding, loss, and attention weights, but not for MLP and MoE weights. Another example
is that we can use varying degrees of data parallelism between tensors that belong to an MoE or non-MoE
layer (referred to as parallel folding (Yan et al., 2026)).
Parallelism.
Based on the distributed tensor, YOLO implements all commonly used forms of paral-
lelism: data parallelism, tensor and context/sequence parallelism, expert parallelism, and pipeline paral-
lelism (Huang et al., 2019; Qi et al., 2023).
• Data parallelism. YOLO uses custom versions of ZeRO stages 1-3 (Rajbhandari et al., 2020) built from
scratch to work with our optimizer and performance optimizations. The implementation groups param-
eters by their unique shardings, data types, and configurable ZeRO-units, and combines all parameters
and gradients into contiguous buffers. This minimizes the total number of collectives required for gra-
dient reduction and ZeRO 1-3. Furthermore, our ZeRO implementation breaks parameters into multi-
dimensional chunks so that they remain compatible with slicing for distributed checkpointing and to avoid
reordering before and after executing collectives. YOLO’s ZeRO implementation always stores parameters
in sharded form, regardless of the ZeRO stage. This simplifies the implementation of distributed AdamW,
as the optimizer state is always automatically sharded as well. The main difference between the ZeRO
stages is when and how often the buffers for gathered parameters or gradients are cleared. E.g., for ZeRO-
1, parameters are all-gathered during the first forward pass and only cleared after the final micro-batch,
whereas for ZeRO-3 (FSDP), parameters are cleared right after their usage.
25
