Figure 15. Performance on AIME 2025 (left) and a hard subset of LiveCodeBench v6 (right) during our STEM
climb. Self-distillation is indicated through ⋆markers; different pre- and mid-trained model versions are shown
in different colors. Maximum output length throughout training is indicated at the bottom. Self-distillation is an
effective way of resetting numerics after a collapse (visible through sudden drops in performance) and changing
the base policy during our run. As we made infrastructure and algorithmic improvements throughout our climb,
self-distillation because of run collapses became less frequent.
stack – and prior to the introduction of stability improvements described in Sec. 3.6.4 – small numerical
discrepancies between inference and training would sometimes accumulate during training and cause a
climb to diverge. In such cases, self-distillation provides a simple and effective way to carryover progress
from one RL climb to the next. The alternative of resuming from a checkpoint before the collapse is often
not viable, as some instabilities are already embedded in the model parameters many steps before the actual
collapse occurs.
• As new pre- and mid-trained checkpoints become available, self-distillation allows us to carry forward the
progress of previous climbs to the next generation of models.
• During the self-distillation process, filters can be applied to reject any samples that demonstrate undesired
forms of reward hacking.
Fig. 15 illustrates how self-distillation was used in our STEM climb both to recover from numeric insta-
bilities and to update the base policy.
Key findings and best practices.
We conducted extensive ablations to understand how to best perform
self-distillation in practice. Our main findings are:
• O(1M) reasoning traces are sufficient to match teacher performance while retaining the stability benefits
of SFT. Using substantially larger datasets provides diminishing returns and risks over-constraining the
policy, narrowing its output distribution and leaving little room for exploration once RL resumes (Zheng
et al., 2024; Gao et al., 2025).
• Training on traces including those that lead to incorrect final answers performs similarly to training on
successful traces only (Gandhi et al., 2025). Since our RL runs typically produce far more than O(1M)
successful traces, we ultimately restricted training to successful traces.
35
