A Citation reference
Please use this reference BIBTEX entry when citing this work:
@techreport{mai_thinking_1,
title={MAI-Thinking-1: Building a Hill-Climbing Machine},
author={The Microsoft AI Team},
institution={Microsoft AI},
year={2026},
urldate={2026-06-02},
url={https://microsoft.ai/pdf/mai-thinking-1.pdf}
}
B Pre‐training Data Pipeline Details
This appendix provides further details for the processing of our major pre-training data sources described
in Sec. 2.4.
B.1 Web HTML
The majority of our web HTML corpus comes from a proprietary crawl. After initial page discovery and
selection, approximately 1.2 trillion pages are crawled and parsed. HTML is converted to text using Trafi-
latura (Barbaresi, 2021), producing extracted text together with language ID and a corresponding confidence
score. During extraction, we infer document encodings rather than assuming UTF-8 prior to processing.
This approach improves robustness when handling multilingual web data with legacy, missing, or incor-
rectly declared encodings.
After parsing, all pages go through filters for policy compliance, adult content, overlap with the web
PDF corpus, and blocklisted domains. In addition to Microsoft standard policy Sec. 2.4, we apply UT1
block list (Prigent, 2026) to remove adult content and piracy-related domains. In all, this filtering reduces
the corpus from 1.2 trillion pages to 794 billion pages. Given the prevalence of AI-generated content on
the web, we also score pages with a proprietary AI-content detection model and use manual inspection to
identify domains with extensive AI-generated content; those domains are filtered out of the training corpus.
The filtered web corpus then undergoes exact and fuzzy deduplication. We normalize documents by
lowercasing and trimming whitespace, then remove exact duplicates using MD5 hashes. This reduces the
corpus from 794 billion to 423 billion documents. Our fuzzy duplication follows the LSH method and
parameters described in Sec. 2.4.3. After fuzzy deduplication, the proprietary crawl contains 73.4 billion
English documents and 116.5 billion non-English documents.
We process Common Crawl with the same pipeline. Starting from roughly 300 billion pages, we keep
the latest retrieved content for each URL, reducing the corpus to about 100 billion pages. After filtering,
deduplication, merging with the proprietary web corpus, and a final round of exact-URL and content-level
fuzzy deduplication, the Common Crawl portion contains 24.2 billion pages.
For downstream processing, we compute text embeddings for all web pages using Qwen3-Embedding-
0.6B (Yang et al., 2025). The resulting corpus is then processed through pipelines tailored to general web
pages, STEM pages, code pages, and key domains.
General web pages.
For general web pages, we use a combination of filtering and quality binning to en-
able finer-grained data mixing of this large corpus. First, we apply attribute models to the text embedding of
each document. These attribute models score pre-training-relevant properties such as educational value, fac-
tual accuracy and reliability, writing quality, information density, reasoning content, and general-knowledge
82
