SWE-Smith (Yang et al., 2026) and SWE-Mirror (Wang et al., 2025a) to generate new synthetic problems
and corresponding tests from PRs associated with environments that were successfully built but failed our
quality checks.
Preventing reward hacking during RL training.
Even though SWE environments are graded with ver-
ifiable, executable test cases, they are still susceptible to reward hacking. We use an LLM monitor to review
the rollouts and do manual human reviews of flagged examples. This identifies three main types of reward
hacking:
• Internet search. Since our RL environments are sourced from public repositories on GitHub, the PR (and
therefore the golden solution) can often be searched for and retrieved. We employ network access control
to our sandbox execution environments to prevent this by either disabling Internet, when the problems
are self-contained, or otherwise only allowing for the bare minimum required by the problem.
• Local git history search. Git is an integral part of software repositories. Sometimes the agent will search
all the git commits and logs to try to find the solution commit hidden in the local git database.7 Removing
all git commits is also not an option, as git is a valuable skill and can provide legitimate information neces-
sary for solving the problem. We completely sanitize the environment by scrubbing commits, references
and branches that come after the base commit of the problem, to create a “time-traveled” version of the
repository back to the original state.
• Tampering with tests. Following the evaluation protocol used in SWE-Bench (Jimenez et al., 2024), we
reset all test files modified by the agent before grading to prevent agents from tampering with the test
cases to make them pass the grading. We additionally hide test changes from the agent during inference
and only apply them at grading time to further reduce opportunities for cheating. However, there are
still vectors for cheating, e.g., through monkey-patching the testing framework or modifying equivalence
behavior, that are not easily prevented by simply resetting test files or introducing hidden tests. We use
LLMs to monitor agent behaviors and continuously strengthen test file detection, test file reset, and other
anti-tampering heuristics.
3.3.2 General Tool Use
In contrast to SWE RL environments, general tool-use RL environments exhibit substantially greater diver-
sity in both available tools and application domains. They cover a broad range of generic tool-calling tasks
(e.g., inventory management, scheduling platforms, report creation, customer support, and other enterprise-
oriented scenarios), emphasizing reliable and stateful interactions with external systems.
Tool‐use RL environments.
Each tool-use RL problem is instantiated as an interactive, stateful environ-
ment backed by mocked backends that simulate realistic API or MCP (Model Context Protocol, 2026) behav-
ior. Concretely, each problem consists of a query, a set of available tools with schema8, an initial environment
state, and a grader. Unlike SWE settings, which typically involve only a small number of tools, tool-use en-
vironments emulate rich real-world service interactions with substantially larger tool sets, often exceeding
50 tools within a single environment. This setting trains the model to select appropriate tools efficiently and
improves generalization across diverse tool-use scenarios. We train on both human-curated environments
and synthetic environments generated by our tool-calling task generation framework, described below.
7For example, SWE-Bench was vulnerable to this problem: https://github.com/SWE-bench/SWE-bench/issues/465.
This has since then been fixed.
8We use OpenAI’s function-calling schema: https://developers.openai.com/api/docs/guides/function-calling.
43
