2.1 Model Architecture
The model architecture of MAI-Base-1 was designed to leverage the benefits of scale on our infrastructure
and hardware. We use a decoder-only Transformer (Vaswani et al., 2017) with periodic local and global at-
tention layers and alternating dense and MoE feed-forward blocks. A high-level overview of the architecture
is shown in Fig. 2. In each layer, we employ RMSNorm (Zhang and Sennrich, 2019) at both the input and
output immediately before the residual addition (Gemma Team et al., 2025). We do not use any biases in the
model, and the input and output embedding weights are tied. While we have observed some improvement
in model performance from tokenizers trained in-house, we chose the o200k_base tokenizer with a vocab-
ulary size of 200,019 (OpenAI, 2022; Hurst et al., 2024) to simplify integration with existing in-house tools
and workflows. A key consideration in our architecture design was the co-optimization with the underlying
GPU infrastructure to ensure efficient scaling for both pre-training and reinforcement learning (RL).
Attention.
We follow the periodic attention design of Gemma 3 (Gemma Team et al., 2025), pairing 5
local attention layers (Beltagy et al., 2020) with 1 global attention layer, which significantly reduces the
computational cost of attention for training and the KV cache size during inference. The local attention
layers use rotary position encoding (RoPE) (Su et al., 2023) with sliding window size of 512 and a base fre-
quency of 10,000. The global attention layers do not use any position encoding (Kazemnejad et al., 2023),
which performs comparably to RoPE while being more efficient. We use group-query attention with 8 KV
heads (Ainslie et al., 2023) and a per-head dimension of 128. We apply RMSNorms to the queries and the
keys (Roy et al., 2020; Henry et al., 2020; Dehghani et al., 2023; Wortsman et al., 2023). The use of these
standard components allows us to leverage FlashAttention-4 (Zadouri et al., 2026) and Ulysses-style context
parallelism (Jacobs et al., 2023) for efficient training on long contexts.
Feed‐forward and MoE.
For the feed-forward layer in each block, we alternate between MoE layers
and dense feed-forward networks (FFN). We find that this paradigm of pairing a high-sparsity layer with a
zero-sparsity (dense) layer scales comparably to a balanced sparsity allocation—i.e., medium-sparsity MoEs
throughout—while being more efficient in wall-clock time under both iso-active and iso-total model param-
eter settings (Sec. 2.2.3). We also find that the every-layer-MoE layout relies much more heavily on shared
experts, whereas adding shared experts to the interleaved layout has little or no benefit. Our first feedfor-
ward layer is dense (DeepSeek-AI et al., 2025a; Kimi Team et al., 2026; Dai et al., 2024), and we use SwiGLU
(Shazeer, 2020) for both dense and MoE feed-forward layers.
We adopt the LatentMoE design (NVIDIA et al., 2025), where a shared down-projection is applied before
the all-to-all dispatch. The latent representations are then projected back to their original dimension after
the all-to-all combine. Importantly, routing decisions are based on the original representation, and each
compressed representation is routed to 8 out of the 512 experts with softmax gating.
We use global-batch load balancing loss (Qiu et al., 2025; Yang et al., 2025) where the empirical expert fre-
quencies are obtained by aggregating across both the data parallelism workers and micro-batches within the
same global batch. We found the aggregation strategy to matter much more than the load balancing loss type.
The GShard-style loss (Lepikhin et al., 2020) that we use performs similarly to the loss-free variant (Wang
et al., 2024a) as long as global aggregation is ensured.
Notably, we observed that the experimental results regarding the optimal load-balancing methodology
can depend on the expert capacity. Under finite capacity, even when the token-dropping strategy is carefully
designed to avoid subtle causal leakages and the dropping rate is kept low with a generous capacity budget,
the resulting conclusions can still differ from those obtained in settings without dropping. We therefore
converged to a fully dropless MoE implementation (details in Sec. 2.8.1) which supports variable message
size for all-to-all communications and ensures bounded memory usage under high imbalance.
6
