• Using traces from later stages of the climb is important. Including traces from very early checkpoints leads
to noticeable performance degradation and requires many subsequent RL steps to recover. Generating
traces from only the final RL checkpoint results in weaker performance after resuming RL. A possible
explanation is that traces collected across a range of strong checkpoints provide greater diversity than
traces generated from a single final policy, leading to better exploration during RL. Reusing traces already
generated during RL also avoids the additional compute and time required for resampling.
• For a fixed token budget, increasing prompt diversity is more valuable than increasing the number of traces
per prompt. We also found simple random sampling to outperform several biased selection strategies,
including shortest-trace sampling and heuristic filtering approaches similar to those explored by Yang
et al. (2025).
• During self-distillation, the model can forget long-context behavior learned from mid-training, especially
when reasoning traces are collected from earlier RL runs trained with shorter maximum lengths. To miti-
gate this, we mix mid-training data with reasoning traces during self-distillation before length extensions.
3.1.5 Hyperparameters
Below, we report the hyperparameters typically used for both our main RL climbs across the three domain-
specific models and our self-distillation runs.
RL climb.
We train using AdamW with β1 = β2 = 0.95, ϵ = 10−15, and no weight decay. We use a constant
learning rate of η = 10−6 with no warmup or decay. The global batch size is 7040 after packing, with the
maximum number of total unpacked sequences capped at 12000. Because our RL stack is fully asynchronous,
as we increase the generation length the latency of the rollouts increases while the training step times do not
increase proportionally due to many short generations. This means the longer rollouts, which are typically
the hardest problems, increase in off-policiness. To counter this, we opted to lowering the learning rate at
higher lengths to 9 × 10−7 to reduce off-policiness and increase stability. The maximum generation length
is 128k though we trained first at 8k, 16k, 32k and 64k.
For GRPO with adaptive entropy control, we set ϵ = 0.6, kmax = 2.5, step size δ = 0.25, and target
entropy H⋆= 0.3. For outer clipping, we set rmax = 50 and leave rmin = 0 unconstrained.
For our language consistency reward, we set wlang = 0.5 and the per-word penalty to α = 0.005. For
the length penalty, we fix wlen = 0.25 up to the 64k length extension stage. Since the penalty is normalized
by ℓmax, the effective penalty naturally weakens as the maximum length increases, allowing the model to
explore longer reasoning traces at larger token budgets. We remove the length penalty (wlen = 0) at the 128k
extension stage.
For problem sampling, we set G = 128 total rollouts with Gearly = 16 and [ρearly
min , ρearly
max ] = [0.05, 0.8].
Pass-rate filtering uses [ρmin, ρmax] = [0.1, 0.8]. For top-p sampling, we use p = 0.97. Larger nucleus values
improve exploration but increase the infrastructure overhead of transferring sampling masks, and we found
p = 0.97 to provide a good balance between exploration and training efficiency.
We perform 5 gradient steps between inference model updates and discard any rollout whose generating
policy is more than 8 inference updates stale (i.e., 40 gradient steps behind). This slightly relaxes on-policy
freshness in exchange for substantially higher throughput. We use dropless MoE training and set the global
MoE load balancing coefficient to 1 · 10−5.
Self‐distillation.
For self-distillation SFT, we use packed sequences with a global batch size of 2, 048 and
a sequence length of 128k tokens. Optimization uses AdamW with weight decay 0.001 and a cosine learning
rate schedule. The maximum learning rate is set to 1.7 · 10−5, the minimum learning rate to 5.2 · 10−6, and
the learning rate warmup ratio to 2%.
36
