comparisons (Sec. 2.2.2) or for ranking models, we use the following formula:
Target = 0.5×Coding+0.175×STEM+0.175×Math+0.1×General knowledge+0.05×Multilingual (3)
These explicit weights allow us to codify the decisions about the relative priority and importance of each
set of benchmarks. Our focus on downstream performance on code and reasoning tasks is reflected in the
larger weights we assign to those categories in pre-training.
To compute the individual category scores in Eq. 3, we first normalize the raw NLL results using a fixed in-
house reference model as a baseline, then take the uniform average across all the benchmarks in that category.
All evaluated models use identical tokenizers, so NLL values are directly comparable. Note that we choose
to elevate mathematics to its own category, while STEM focuses on science, technology, and engineering.
Category
Evaluation Data
Source
Coding
Microsoft code and pull requests
Internal private projects
Human-AI coding sessions
Internal testing of previous models
STEM
Worked solutions to graduate-level STEM
problems
Commissioned from vendor
Math
Worked solutions to advanced math
problems
Commissioned from vendor
General knowledge
Online Community Discussions
Public web forums
Human-AI interactions
Internal testing of previous models
Pyramidal trivia
Publicly available databases deduplicated
against training data
Hard trivia questions
Commissioned from vendor
Multilingual
Multilingual Human-AI interactions
Internal testing of previous models
Table 3. Example types of data within our NLL evaluation suite. All examples are carefully deduplicated from
any training data.
2.3.1 Public Evaluation Decontamination
Publicly available evaluation benchmarks have been helpful for guiding the development of many of our
models. As the importance of AI models has grown in recent years, there has been an increase in the leakage
of evaluation datasets into sources of training data. This is particularly common on GitHub, where many
researchers and developers of AI share their work. Many common evaluations are published on GitHub in
their original form (Austin et al., 2021), and nearly every benchmark is replicated there many times, typi-
cally with solutions, generations from models, etc. Many public evaluations are derived from some of the
online sources we use for training, but with additional curation processes (for example (Wei et al., 2024a;
Hendrycks et al., 2020)). As our training sets have grown in scale and coverage, the influence of that overlap
becomes significant. Similar to prior works (Godey et al., 2025), we’ve observed in experiments that this
contamination can lead to counterintuitive results, such as data that is nominally meant to improve coding
performance also leading to an improvement in long-tail general knowledge evaluations.
We have used several methods for detecting and removing leaked evaluation examples in our training
data. All data from huggingface.co and mirror domains are removed, and a universal 20-gram fuzzy
deduplication is applied with a similarity threshold of 80% to all our training sources. We find that these
methods accurately remove a significant number of leaked examples, but they are imperfect.
10
