Task category
Share of prompts
Open QA, brainstorming and advising, content authoring
13–14% each
Structured problem-solving, information extraction, academic help, insight generation,
content summarization
6–7% each
Task planning, context-based QA, other text analysis
5% each
Personal support, entertainment, chit-chat, role-play
3–4% each
Table 13. Task distribution for human side-by-side evaluation.
Evaluation task selection.
Evaluation tasks are derived from complementary sources to ensure compre-
hensive coverage of genuine user needs and strong discriminative power for comparing models. The final
set contains 1276 tasks, all in English, 30% of which are multi-turn. See Table 13 for details on the task
distribution.
The first source of tasks is expert-authored prompts following a structured taxonomy spanning real-
world use cases of varying complexity, including both single- and multi-turn conversations. The second
source is logs from Microsoft’s consumer Copilot product, carefully filtered to exclude prompts containing
personally identifiable information (PII), prompts that are incomplete or lack necessary conversational con-
text, adversarial prompts, and prompts requiring custom configurations such as coding environments, image
generation capabilities, or access to external tools. We used stratified sampling to ensure use case coverage
and balance difficulty across dimensions such as specificity and constraint diversity.
Rater pool and evaluation process.
To conduct these model evaluations, we worked with evaluators
managed by Surge AI, a reputable data labeling vendor. These evaluators are native English speakers from
a range of generalist and professional backgrounds. Evaluators are screened through a multi-stage qualifica-
tion process that assesses their ability to evaluate core LLM capabilities and failure modes, including fact-
checking, reading comprehension, and instruction following. Training materials include rating instructions
and examples of common failure modes.
For each prompt, a rater is first asked to carefully assess the MAI and other model responses individually
across several dimensions: instruction following (both explicit and implicit), factuality (using a search engine
to help with fact-checking), conciseness and relevance, completeness, and style and tone. For each dimension,
the rater determines whether the response had no, minor, or major issues. As a final step, the rater decides
on an overall preference rating between the two responses on a 7-point Likert scale, ranging from “much
worse than” (-1.5) to “much better than” (1.5). We observed strong inter-annotator agreement across the rater
pool, validating that ratings are consistent and reproducible within acceptable noise thresholds.
Results.
Table 14 shows the human evaluation results on overall pairwise preference on a scale of
[−1.5, 1.5] and the delta on individual quality dimensions on a scale of [−1, 1]. In aggregate we found that
raters preferred MAI-Thinking-1 to Sonnet 4.6, but preferred Opus 4.6 to MAI-Thinking-1. Versus Son-
net 4.6, MAI-Thinking-1 won 49% of comparisons, tied on 6%, and lost on 45%. Versus Opus 4.6, MAI-
Thinking-1 won on 43%, tied on 5%, and lost on 52%. On targeted dimensions, raters found MAI-Thinking-
1 superior to Sonnet 4.6 on conciseness and relevance and style and tone, and roughly equivalent (within noise)
on instruction following, factuality, and completeness.
4.3 Internal Safety Evaluation
Safety and over‐refusal.
We construct an internal benchmark to measure over-refusal on prompts identi-
fied as low-risk requests that the model should answer. A refusal judge then scores each response against the
prescribed strategy, flagging refusals, hedging, or unwarranted partial refusals. The over-refusal rate is the
55
