process. In short, two training runs with the same hardware resources and configurations will produce
bitwise identical models. Determinism requires careful attention at several levels of the training stack:
• Data pipelines. The ordering of training micro-batches is fixed for a given configuration of data-parallel
workers. While these workers asynchronously prefetch batches to hide I/O latencies, we ensure that the
queue of pending batches is consistent across runs and restarts.
• Training checkpoints. We store all stateful data including model weights, optimizer state, FP8 scaling
history, dataloader progress, and random-number generators.
• GPU kernels. Floating-point accumulation is non-associative, so reproducible reductions require control
over the order in which values are combined. Our training stack performs deterministic accumulations in
prescribed orders, rather than relying on unordered GPU atomics whose accumulation order is scheduler-
dependent. For example, RMSNorm backpropagation accumulates gradients using a two-stage tiled re-
duction: the first kernel materializes per-tile partial sums, and a finalization kernel reduces those partials
in a fixed order. Another example is the top-k selection for MoE routing: our kernel uses a stable sort to
avoid non-deterministic tie-breaking.
• Network collective communications. Similar to floating-point reductions within GPU kernels, collectives
such as all-reduce and reduce-scatter must be deterministic. We disable NVLink SHARP (Graham et al.,
2020) to ensure that the collective operations are deterministic at the cost of reduced performance. We
also enforce consistent NCCL topologies run-to-run so that intra-rack reductions always use the same ac-
cumulation order.
We also leverage determinism to build confidence in our numerical correctness as YOLO evolves. Our
tests track “golden” model configurations and compare for exactness against all training metrics (e.g., loss,
gradient norms, and weight tensor checksums). This does not mean that we disallow any changes to numerics
that result in a different training result; changes are expected when we make changes that affect floating-
point behavior (e.g., upgrade system software or GPU kernels). This gives us an explicit history of expected
numerical changes in our software history.
2.8.3 Fault Tolerance
Large-scale training must tolerate frequent hardware failures with minimal effect on training efficiency.
YOLO’s fault-tolerance approach combines distributed checkpointing and fast-failover to hot standbys to
minimize lost training progress and downtime during failures.
Distributed checkpoint format. We build on PyTorch’s distributed checkpointing library (DCP), which
deduplicates replicated state across ranks and supports tensor resharding at load time. We rewrote DCP’s
metadata creation and serialization paths to lower CPU memory overhead, reduce Python garbage collection
pressure, and accelerate serialization/deserialization. Collectively, these optimizations reduced both CPU
memory overhead and checkpoint save time by more than 10×. In our implementation, only the public
APIs and the core logic for mapping tensor shards to storage – the save plan – remain from the original
library. We also pre-compute DCP save plans and cache them in persistent storage, removing this expensive
computation from the critical path.
Asynchronous checkpointing. To minimize training downtime when saving checkpoints, we first copy
checkpoint tensors from device to host directly in the training processes, then offload the remaining work to a
separate checkpointing process while training proceeds. The checkpointing process writes data to persistent
storage via the frontend network and handles cross-rank coordination to atomically commit the checkpoint.
To support our scale, we replaced the standard CPU collective backend with a custom coordination layer
built on a shared key-value store. We further employ an opportunistic admission-control mechanism that
polls for completion of in-flight checkpoints and initiates the next one as soon as possible, while ensuring at
27
