• Tensor parallelism in YOLO is implemented via column-parallel and row-parallel GEMMs, in which both
activations and weight tensors are sharded across the same number of ranks (commonly referred to as
sequence parallelism) (Shoeybi et al., 2019; Korthikanti et al., 2023). Any additional sharding of activations
tensors beyond the degree of the weight sharding is treated as context parallelism in the attention layer and
as data-parallelism otherwise.
• Context parallelism. YOLO uses Ulysses-style context parallelism (Jacobs et al., 2023), in which activation
tensors are re-partitioned via a parallel matrix-transpose (all-to-all) to move the sharding of the sequence
dimension to the attention-head (hidden) dimension. For MAI-Base-1, context parallelism was only used
for long-context mid-training, whereas tensor/sequence parallelism was used for all training stages.
• Expert parallelism. Initially, YOLO’s implementation of expert parallelism was similar to GShard (Lep-
ikhin et al., 2020) which uses all-to-all communication with static tensor shapes and a pre-defined capacity
factor. In later runs, we switched to a dropless MoE implementation that routes every token to its selected
experts using variable-size all-to-all communication. All pre-training runs use expert-parallelism within
the NVLink domain (with tensor-parallelism of size one) and data-parallelism across racks.
Activation checkpointing and offloading.
When training MAI-Base-1 with ZeRO data parallelism, acti-
vations consumed the majority of the available high-bandwidth device memory (HBM). To reduce the mem-
ory footprint and enable expert parallelism within a single NVLink domain, YOLO supports both activation
checkpointing and offloading activations to host memory. Similar to frameworks such as Megatron-Core, ac-
tivation checkpointing can be configured at different granularities, ranging from recomputing one or more
full transformer layers to fine-grained recomputation of intermediate activations within a layer (e.g., recom-
puting the output of the activation function). Across all training phases of MAI-Base-1, we use a combi-
nation of transformer-layer checkpointing and fine-grained recomputation. Since the memory required to
store activations for checkpointing scales linearly with the number of transformer layers, YOLO also im-
plements activation offloading. Activation offloading complements checkpointing and introduces minimal
overhead as device-to-host transfers are executed asynchronously on dedicated CUDA streams using pinned
host memory.
Mixture of experts.
Our MoE layer balances research flexibility with training efficiency. It supports
both dropless and capacity-capped modes, multiple load-balancing strategies (including global-batch load
balancing loss (Qiu et al., 2025; Yang et al., 2025) and loss-free (Wang et al., 2024a)), configurable top-k
scoring, fine-grained telemetry, and router replay for RL rollouts. For expert parallelism, we partition local
experts into groups of configurable size and pipeline the dispatch →compute →collect phases across
groups, so that all but the first dispatch and last collect overlap with expert computation; the remaining ex-
posed communication is overlapped with global load-balance computation and, optionally, shared experts.
To prevent imbalance-induced memory swings, fragmentation, and OOMs in dropless mode, we support
a static-memory dropless mode that runs multiple capped dispatch →compute →collect rounds per
group, each processing up to a fixed capacity of tokens. In the backward pass, we then perform per-expert-
per-round fine-grained recompute in order to avoid storing imbalanced activations. For performance, we
use custom Grouped GEMM and quantization kernels supporting all numerics recipes with low overhead,
and custom CuTe DSL symmetric-memory kernels for device-initiated, variably-sized, high-throughput all-
to-all communication over NVLink.
2.8.2 Determinism and Correctness
We enforce determinism in training for reasons including scientific reproducibility, developer agility, and
debugging system health, even at the cost of reduced training efficiency (e.g., MFU). For a fixed hardware
topology, model configuration, and software version, we ensure bitwise reproducibility in the pre-training
26
