robustness essential to long, enduring climbs. Second, simplicity is sustainable. We favor simple, scalable
recipes; clean, trustworthy data; and transparent infrastructure that together support climbing from scratch.
Third, scientific rigor avoids shortcuts. Every decision must be testable through data-driven ladders, abla-
tions, and evaluations that expose reliable paths to the top.
MAI-Thinking-1 is pre-trained on 30T tokens extracted from a mixture of publicly available and licensed
human-generated data covering web data, public GitHub code, books, academic papers, news, multilingual
text, and domain-specific materials. Each of these sources are processed in-house from start to finish. We
choose to not use any synthetic data generated by language models during pre-training and make an effort to
avoid and remove AI-generated content within collected data sources. For pre-training, we do not use any
open source training datasets and decontaminate common machine learning databases from our training
data. In mid-training we further emphasize STEM, math, and coding abilities to build a strong foundation
for reasoning RL climbs. After mid-training, MAI-Thinking-1 achieves a maximum context length of 256K.
Pre- and mid-training give our base model broad predictive competence and knowledge, but they do not
specify how the model should behave, solve long-horizon tasks, or allocate inference-time computation.
During the reinforcement learning (RL) climb, we teach the model to reason and respond. The model
learns to leverage chains of thought (CoTs) against task-specific feedback, use external tools to interact with
environments, as well as follow human preference and safety signals. Our RL climb starts from scratch,
learning to reason with no prior exposure to reasoning traces. A robust RL recipe, self distillation, and
infrastructure improvements enable us to sustain RL runs over thousands of steps. Using this recipe, we
train three domain-specific specialist models: one for STEM reasoning, one for agentic coding and tool use,
and one for helpfulness and safety.
We compare the performance of MAI-Thinking-1 to a variety of open- and closed-weights frontier mod-
els across public benchmarks and human side-by-side evaluations. These evaluations span a broad set of areas,
highlighting the model’s versatility across different domains: STEM, agentic coding, knowledge, instruction
following, long context, safety, health, and tool calling. MAI-Thinking-1 achieves 52.8% on SWE-Bench Pro,
97.0% on AIME 2025, 94.5% on AIME 2026, 87.7% on LiveCodeBench v6, and is competitive with Sonnet
4.6 across a wide-range of benchmarks.
A key technical challenge when developing MAI-Thinking-1 was striking a balance between safety (which
asks models to refuse user requests) and helpfulness (which asks models to comply). A safe model needs
to provide helpful responses that remain compliant with our safety policies and standards. We develop
internal safety benchmarks to ground our progress and incorporate helpfulness and safety training into our
RL climbs. As part of responsible deployment, we continuously red-team throughout model development
to surface and remediate vulnerabilities before release.
MAI-Thinking-1 is the first model developed using our hill-climbing machine: the integrated process of
building data pipelines, training infrastructure, reinforcement learning environments and rewards, evalua-
tion suites, and safety tests that turn model development into an empirical optimization loop on a specified
domain. The hill-climbing machine allows us to advance AI while grounding progress around human needs
from the ground up.
2
