Figure 13. Adaptive entropy control during training. Top: observed entropy ˆH(πθ) over 800 steps of an RL
climb with target entropy H⋆= 0.3. Bottom: corresponding values of k with kmax = 1.0: it is decreased when
the observed entropy exceeds the target and increased otherwise. Adjusting k provides an effective mechanism
for regulating policy entropy.
We found that the upper bound requires careful tuning to avoid exploding entropy when it is too large, or
entropy collapse when it is too low (see also Cui et al., 2025; Xi et al., 2025).
To address this, we dynamically adjust k based on the current policy’s entropy using a simple integral con-
troller. At each training step, we estimate the target policy’s per-token entropy via an importance-weighted
estimator:
ˆH(πθ) =
1
|T |
∑
(i,t)∈T
−log πθ(yi,t | q, yi,<t) · ri,t(θ) ,
(7)
where T denotes the set of all (response index, token index) pairs in the current training batch. Given a target
entropy H⋆, the controller updates k with a step size δ ∈R+ after each step:
k ←clip
(
k + δ · sign
(
H⋆−ˆH(πθ)
)
, 0, kmax
)
.
(8)
Intuitively, when entropy is too low, increasing k widens the upper clipping bound, allowing the policy
to increase the probability of alternative tokens more aggressively. When entropy is sufficiently high, k is
decreased to tighten the trust region. As illustrated in Fig. 13, this mechanism acts as an automatic entropy
regularizer without requiring an explicit entropy bonus term in the loss, which we found to underperform
the adaptive entropy mechanism.
We initialize k = 0, so that the clipping bounds 1 −ϵ and (1 −ϵ)−1 are multiplicative inverses, making
the initial clipping interval symmetric in log-ratio space. We then update k online according to the entropy
controller above.
Outer ratio clip.
The GRPO objective deliberately leaves two cases unclipped: (a) advantage is negative and
the new policy assigns higher probability than the old (i.e. Ai < 0 and ri,t > 1), and (b) advantage is positive
and the new policy assigns lower probability (Ai > 0 and ri,t < 1). The original motivation (Schulman et al.,
2017) is to leave the policy unbounded when it corrects itself in the right direction, only bounding moves
that exploit the advantage estimate.
32
