• Public GitHub PR and issue collection. The pipeline starts with 102 million public GitHub PRs. First, we
filter PRs to obtain a suitable subset for environment building. To be included, a PR must be merged into
the main branch of its repository and modify fewer than 15 files. Each PR must also contain both code
and test changes so that the grader can utilize the test changes as hidden tests to evaluate model’s ability
to fix the issues. Test and code changes are split based on the file contents in the patch. We further filter
PRs based on issue linkage, retaining PRs associated with GitHub, Jira, Bugzilla, YouTrack, Phabricator,
Launchpad or Linear issues. After this stage, we obtain approximately 4.87 million PRs with linked issues.
• Automatic agentic environment building. We convert the selected PRs into trainable environments using
an LLM agent that reads the repository state and creates Docker files to build executable container images.
We validate each image by executing the test suite and discarding builds with dependency or environment
errors.
• Reference grading signal extraction. For each candidate problem, we derive reference test outcomes by
executing the repository test suite in two stages against the base commit: first with only the test diff applied
(pre-fix),and then with both the test and code diffs applied (post-fix). Tests that transition from fail-to-
pass (F2P) form the issue-resolution signal, requiring the model patch to flip these tests in order to receive
credit for solving the problem. Tests that remain passing across both stages, pass-to-pass (P2P) form the
regression signal, ensuring that generated patches do not break existing functionality. Problems with no
surviving F2P tests are discarded.
• Environment and grader verification. After obtaining the executable environment, test and code changes,
test execution scripts, and expected pre-fix and post-fix outcomes, we re-validate the environments within
the same SEE training infrastructure used during RL training. This serves as a final sanity check against
potential discrepancies between the environment-building sandbox and the training sandbox. We verify
that an empty code patch fails the grader while the golden solution patch succeeds, each across multiple
trials. Although the upstream patch is known to be correct, re-validation may still fail due to cluster dif-
ferences such as network egress policy, CPU/memory limits, execution timeouts. We additionally filter
environments that exhibit non-deterministic test behavior across repeated executions to reduce reward
noise.
• Quality filtering and SWE environment rewriting. Correct execution and airtight tests alone are insuffi-
cient, as many environments still contain low-quality or underspecified problem statements. For example,
we frequently observe short and vague bug descriptions, incomplete specifications, or statements such as
“fix things” where the expected behavior is only implicitly encoded in the hidden tests. If there are large
gaps between the problem statement and what the final tests run by the grader are expecting, then the
model has to guess what the tests require.
To improve environment quality, we deploy an agent within the same environment to inspect the problem
statement, repository, and tests, and score the task on specification clarity, test quality, leakage risk, and
feasibility. For low-quality environments, the agent rewrites the problem statement to better align with
the test requirements while avoiding unnecessary information leakage or overspecification.
Out of the initial 4.87 million candidate problems, 2.08 million (42.8%) successfully passed automatic
agentic environment building, 745, 452 (15.3%) passed reference grading signal extraction, and 265, 617
(5.5%) survived environment and grader verification across 94, 044 unique repositories.
Synthetic data.
While many environments generated by our environment building pipeline did not pass
validation, a large fraction were still valid executable environments. In most cases, the failures were due
to low-quality problem statements or insufficient test coverage rather than invalid execution environments.
To reuse these executable environments, we adopt methods inspired by BugPilot (Sonwane et al., 2025),
42
