Synthetic environment.
To increase the scale and diversity of our training data, we synthetically gener-
ate self-contained closed-world environments with seeded databases, tool definitions, and verifiable tasks.
Our pipeline requires only plain-English descriptions of the desired environments to generate complete
tool-use environments end-to-end. This approach follows prior work on automatically generating tool-use
environments (Sullivan et al., 2025; Zhang et al., 2026; Wang et al., 2026; Mika, 2026), particularly the
FunReason-MT pipeline (Xu et al., 2025b; Hao et al., 2025). Overall, we aim to replicate common enterprise
and consumer tool-use scenarios, such as travel booking and inventory management.
Our pipeline consists of three main phases: (i) environment bootstrapping, which generates tool descrip-
tions, implements functions, and seeds databases with relevant entities; (ii) task creation, which samples
likely tool-call trajectories, creates entities relevant to the interaction chain, and formulates user requests;
and (iii) verification and refinement, which executes the actions generated in the previous phase, and removes
tasks that are overly similar. Each phase involves multiple LLM calls for tasks such as entity generation and
function implementation. We additionally employ iterative critique-and-refinement loops to improve the
outputs at each phase (Dhuliawala et al., 2023; Madaan et al., 2023).
We generate environment-specific personas (Ge et al., 2024) to further diversify tasks. To mitigate over-
eager tool-calling behavior, we additionally augment our data with tasks that include tool descriptions but
do not require tool usage. Overall, our pipeline synthesizes more than 150 environments and 130, 000 tasks.
Reward design.
During training, we use a mixture of environment-specific and cross-environment
graders. Environment-specific graders assign rewards based on the final environment state, tool usage pat-
terns, and final answers. For synthetic environments, we use an LLM judge to decompose tasks into multiple
sub-tasks and grade each independently. We additionally employ cross-environment graders that encourage
efficient tool usage, including parallel tool calls when possible, avoidance of duplicate calls, and correct tool
invocation with valid parameter types and arguments.
3.4 Helpfulness and Safety Climb
The helpfulness and safety RL climb optimizes MAI-Thinking-1’s general helpfulness as judged by human
preference, instruction following, steerability, safety, honesty, and style. (Ouyang et al., 2022; Radford et al.,
2019; Li et al., 2024a) This climb differs from the other climbs in that it focuses on tasks where performance
is not as objectively defined and machine-verifiable.
We organize this section by first describing all the reward signals (Sec. 3.4.1) used during RL climbing,
followed by each domain’s specific data recipe and reward designs.
3.4.1 Rewards
Compared to the other climbs, the helpfulness and safety climb combines a more diverse set of reward types
to guide subjective aspects of model behavior. We use a combination of a reward model trained on human
preference data (Lambert et al., 2025), AI judge feedback (typically rubric-guided) (Gu et al., 2024), and addi-
tional verifiable rewards (Peng et al., 2025; Pyatkin et al., 2026) to form an aggregate reward signal. (Lambert
et al., 2024; Wang et al., 2024c)
Reward model.
Our reward model is based on a post-trained version of MAI-Base-1, which we fine-tune
to predict human preferences expressed as text tokens. It is trained exclusively on human preference data
collected with human annotators from several vendors. We employ a robust reward hacking mitigation
pipeline as described in Liu et al. (2025c) to counter relevant biases in our training data.
Training. For a context c and k-way side-by-side with responses y1, …, yk, and corresponding scores
s1, . . . , sk ∈[1; 5], the input to the reward model is
c <|im_sep|> y1 <|im_sep|> y2 <|im_sep|> …<|im_sep|> yk <|im_sep|>
44
