Model
LongBenchV2 CorpusQA
MAI-Thinking-1
61
82
Sonnet 4.6
66
79
Table 19. Additional Long Context Benchmarks. Sonnet 4.6 results were generated via our own independent
evaluation. All models were evaluated using maximum 128k output tokens with maximum reasoning effort
(when applicable). Results were averaged from 4 independent evaluations.
MRCR.
OpenAI’s MRCR (Vodrahalli et al., 2024) is an artificially constructed benchmark which tests a
model’s capability to perform counting and copying over long contexts. While an ideal model should score
well, the nature of the tasks differs substantially from natural user queries. We found that, without targeted
training, MAI-Thinking-1 performs poorly on this task compared to existing models, achieving 60% on
avg_similarity@256K, compared with a state-of-the-art result of 95%. In contrast, a small set of 1,000
synthetically generated in-distribution training examples boosts MRCR performance to 90%+ on a much
smaller model in the MAI-Base-1 family, suggesting the benchmark’s susceptibility to overfitting. As we
do not have evidence that training with such targeted data leads to more general model improvements, we
decided to drop MRCR from the set of long-context benchmarks we prioritized.
K.4 Safety
AIR‐Bench.
AIR-Bench (Zeng et al., 2024b) gives an aggregate read on policy-grounded refusal across
regulatory and policy-derived harm taxonomies. Evaluation uses category-specific LLM judge prompts cus-
tomized to each risk category and the scoring is designed to reward safe engagement rather than only penal-
izing unsafe responses. MAI-Thinking-1 achieves the same performance as Sonnet 4.6 on the benchmark.
CyberSecEval.
CyberSecEval 4 (Wan et al., 2024; Meta, 2024) is an evaluation suite covering a variety
of cybersecurity-related capabilities. Here, we focus on insecure code generation. The Instruct benchmark
presents coding requests designed to elicit known insecure patterns, while the Autocomplete benchmark
prompts the model with code context leading up to a known insecure pattern for the model to complete.
Both measure whether the model produces vulnerable code in response using static analysis rules. MAI-
Thinking-1 outperforms Sonnet 4.6 on the Autocomplete benchmark, and achieves similar performance on
Instruct.
K.5 Honesty
To measure the honesty of MAI-Thinking-1, we selected benchmarks covering two distinct failure modes:
repeating plausible-sounding falsehoods in short-form questions, and introducing unsupported claims over
extended generations. MAI-Thinking-1 performs on par with Sonnet 4.6 in both benchmarks.
TruthfulQA.
TruthfulQA (Lin et al., 2022) evaluates resistance to popular misconceptions, where each
question is designed to elicit plausible yet false answers. For reproducible results, we report model accuracy
over the dataset in the recommended multiple-choice setting.
LongFact.
LongFact (Wei et al., 2024c) evaluates factual precision over longer generations containing mul-
tiple claims; we adopt the simplified claim extraction and LLM judge protocol from OpenAI (Singh et al.,
2025a) in place of the original SAFE pipeline, retaining the LongFact prompt set and reporting claim-level
precision.
105
