A conversation between User and Assistant. The user asks a question, and the
assistant solves it. The assistant first thinks about the reasoning process in the
mind and then provides the user with the answer. The reasoning process and answer are
enclosed within <think> </think> and <answer> </answer> tags, respectively, i.e.,
<think> reasoning process here </think>
<answer> answer here </answer>.
User: {QUERY}
Assistant: <think>
Figure 14. Prompt template used for reasoning prior to the first round of self-distillation with {QUERY} being a
placeholder for the actual user query (from Guo et al. (2025)).
Problem sampling.
For each problem q in the training set, we generate a group of rollouts from the cur-
rent inference model. To reduce inference cost, we use an early exit strategy: we first sample Gearly < G
responses and compute their empirical pass rate, i.e. the fraction of responses with positive reward. If the
early pass rate lies in an acceptable range [ρearly
min , ρearly
max ], we sample the full G responses; otherwise the prob-
lem is discarded.
After all G responses are generated, we apply a second pass-rate filter [ρmin, ρmax] to the full group. Only
problems whose full pass rate falls in this range are used for training. The main motivation for this sec-
ond filter is to remove very low-variance groups: if almost all responses are correct or incorrect, the group
provides little useful relative learning signal.
Rollout sampling.
We employ top-p sampling (Holtzman et al., 2019) using πold to sample rollouts y1:G.
We found that continuing to backpropagate through logits corresponding to tokens outside the sampled
nucleus can lead to catastrophic off-policy mismatch, causing divergence within a few training steps. To
prevent this, we exclude these tokens during training by reusing the top-p truncation mask from rollout
sampling to set the logits of all excluded tokens to −∞prior to softmax computation, following DeepSeek-
AI et al. (2025b). We found that top-p masking substantially reduces policy divergence during RL training,
at the cost of additional overhead for mask storage and replay.
To improve training efficiency during the early stages of a climb, we initially cap the maximum rollout
length at 8k tokens. As training progresses, we increase this limit in powers of two until reaching the final
output length of 128k tokens. We found this length extension curriculum to significantly reduce inference
cost during the low-performance regime, where long reasoning traces are rarely required, while still allowing
the model to gradually adapt to longer contexts as its capabilities improve.
3.1.4 Self‐Distillation
Achieving strong performance from a mid-trained checkpoint requires training over a large number of RL
steps. We utilize self-distillation (Huang et al., 2022; Zelikman et al., 2022; Singh et al., 2023; Zhao et al.,
2026) to make such long-running climbs more practical. For self-distillation, we collect rollouts generated
during RL and perform SFT on a midtrained checkpoint using these rollouts. The resulting model serves as
the starting point for continuing our RL climb, while preserving capabilities discovered during previous RL
stages. We use self-distillation for several purposes:
• For our initial climb, we use domain- or task-specific prompts to elicit the target behavior; for example,
Fig. 14 shows the initial raw text prompt used for our STEM climb. Self-distillation allows us to move
from prompting to using our native chat format by simply updating the formatting of the SFT data.
• Another primary use case is to recover from occasional run failures. Early in the development of our RL
34
