2.5.1 Challenges to Optimization
The choice of datamix has a significant influence on the resulting model, and so we want to take a principled
and structured approach to this problem. An effective technique must deal with several challenges:
• The definition of utility. How do we concretely define the goal against which to optimize? Our overarching
goal is to develop models that are effective in real-world use, but running a full post-training process for
each candidate data mixture would be prohibitively expensive.
• Vast search space. As the number of datasets grows to the hundreds, the space of datamixes is so large that
an exhaustive search is not computationally feasible.
• Scale-dependent effects. One data source may be particularly useful for models at smaller scale, while
another is more useful at large scale (Ye et al., 2025).
• Cross-dataset interactions. Datasets are both complementary and substitutive for each other in different
ways. The utility of a dataset cannot be measured independently of the rest of the mixture.
• Multi-epoch effects. Datamixes cannot be evaluated in isolation: training horizons matter (Chen et al.,
2026a). While tempting, placing high weight on high quality but small datasets can lead to diminishing
returns when the training horizon is large, as the dataset ends up being consumed many times. In the worst
case, this can lead to overfitting.
• Compute cost. Training many models with various data mixes quickly becomes expensive, especially when
trying to explore an extremely high dimensional search space.
2.5.2 Forecasting‐Based Approaches
One class of approaches to data selection is to train many models at significantly smaller scale and then build
a predictive model over these model’s evaluation results. From these fit-functions on the smaller models, one
can try to estimate the globally optimal data mixture or, at least, guide the search. This family of approaches
includes methods like RegMix (Liu et al., 2025b). One key feature of these techniques is that by relying on
small models, they enable rapid iteration.
We experimented with variants of these methods, sampling data mixtures based on a baseline mixture
and training several thousand small models, each with between 760M and 4B active parameters (L12-L36
models as per Tab. 1) – examples of the Web / Code data frontier are shown in Fig. 5. For each model, we
compute our full NLL suite looking at correlations between different data subsets and different evaluations
– both aggregated and individual – an example of which is shown in Figs. 5 and 7. Ultimately, we assign a
single score for each mix, as given by Eq. 3 in Sec. 2.3, which we attempt to globally optimize (minimize).
A case of scale dependence in practice.
During our data-mixing experiments, we uncovered an em-
pirical finding that challenged one of our core scaling assumptions: the idea that the relative ordering of
two datamixes – which one yields better evaluation performance – is preserved as compute increases. This
assumption, often referred to informally as the rank invariance hypothesis (Liu et al., 2025b), is appealing
because it suggests that inexpensive small-scale experiments can reliably guide decisions for large-scale runs.
However, we found this to not always be the case.
In an earlier model generation, we sought to measure the sensitivity of coding and STEM reinforce-
ment learning to pretraining data mixtures. We produced two candidate mixtures with different mixture
optimization methods and weightings of our evaluations: a code-heavy-mix (approximately 50% code,
predicted to be especially strong on our Coding category) and stem-heavy-mix (STEM data significantly
upweighted, to target the STEM and Math categories). Intermediate scale verifications were run, followed
17
